On the island of Crete there lived a Minotaur,
a ferocious creature that was half man and
half bull. The people of the island of Crete
were terrified of the Minotaur; it loved nothing
more than to feast on human flesh. They
begged their ruler, King Minos, to order that
the creature be killed, but the King decided
against this. Instead, he constructed a plan to
imprison the Minotaur. To die at the hands of
the Minotaur would be one of the most terrible
deaths imaginable, and King Minos believed
that his enemies deserved to meet such a fate.
He enlisted the help of Daedalus, a talented
architect, inventor and craftsman, and asked
him to build a labyrinth – a maze of passages
that would be so complex that it would be
virtually impossible for anyone (or anything) to
ever find a way out.

Daedalus did as King Minos requested and
then, following the King's instructions,
he enticed the Minotaur into the labyrinth
by leaving a huge pile of fresh meat in its
centre. Once the Minotaur was in the
labyrinth the creature was unable to
escape. King Minos was delighted.
Anyone who was sent to the labyrinth
would be trapped, and eventually they
would be found by the Minotaur who
would eat them alive. Now he had the
perfect punishment for his enemies!
Deciding he had no further use for
Daedalus, the King threw him into the
labyrinth along with his son Icarus.
The King expected that the inventor
and his son would be found by the
Minotaur and eaten. Instead, unknown
to the king, they escaped. After all,
Daedalus had built the labyrinth and
knew his way around!

Once out of the labyrinth Daedalus and Icarus
carefully made their way to the shore of the
island and pondered on what to do next. The
trees and bushes surrounding the beach would
provide an ideal sanctuary for the time being.
They could possibly survive for months or
years without being seen. But who would want
to live like that – hiding away hoping they
would not be captured? They needed to find a
way to leave the island, but how? They could
not swim, the nearest land was too far away,
and they would never make it. They could not
leave by ship; all vessels were controlled by
King Minos. Daedalus stared up at the sky
and the seagulls that circled overhead. If only
he was as free as a bird. If only he and his
son could just fly away ... and then he had an
idea which was both brilliant and ambitious.
He would build a pair of wings! It would take
some time, days, weeks even, but he would
build a pair of wings for his son and himself –
exactly the same as the wings of a seagull but
on a much larger scale.